- [Instructor] Spring Boot 2.0 introduced a new technology
to provide non-blocking IO called the Reactive Stack.
This new reactive stack leverages multi-core processors
to handle several concurrent connections.
The original Servlet Stack provides synchronous blocking IO
with one request per thread.
Spring data now provides reactive repository interfaces
that interact with non-blocking data sources such as
Mongo, Cassandra, Redis, and Couchbase.
This video focuses exclusively on reactive repositories.
So in this project, we're going to look at the pom.xml
and we're seeing that this is based on our existing example
for MongoDB
but in the dependency here,
it's Spring Boot starter data MongoDB reactive.
Also, department repository
and staff repository extends reactive cred repository.
Which is different than Mongo cred repositories.
I'm going to drill down into the code
for the reactive cred repository.
And we see the typical methods for crod methods,
the return types are either Mono or Flux.
A Mono is an asynchronous publisher of zero or one result.
A Flux is a publisher of an asynchronous sequence of zero
to any number of results.
Let's go back to staff repository.
So we have query methods
and this method must either return a Flux or Mono,
otherwise a run-time error is thrown at invocation.
So let's try out some of these repository methods.
This code demonstrates
that simply invoking the repository method does not
automatically interact with the data source.
The methods are asynchronous and return immediately.
To interact with the data source,
each publisher, Mono or Flux, requires a subscriber.
It is the subscriber that actually triggers the interaction.
In this file,
the block of subscribe methods trigger the interaction
and don't return until their interaction is complete.
So let's walk through these methods.
First we're going to call staffRepository.save
to create the Mono of Dean Jones
and then we'll create the Mono of Dean Martin
and then we're going to create a Flux for findAll.
So at this moment nothing is actually been saved
to the database and we're going to prove that
by calling this print statement.
This is saying that there is no staff found in the database
because there's been no subscription.
Now we're going to subscribe to the Dean Jones' Mono
and block until it's completed.
So now here we actually create the staff in the database
and so with block it actually returns the result.
Another way is to call subscribe
so we're going to, on Dean Martin Mono,
we're going to call subscribe.
That does not return the result but it is in the database
and now we're going to invoke the staffFlux.count
and we'll block until that completes.
So this is going to give us the count in the database
after the subscription so now we have two staff members
in the database.
And now we're actually going
to look up the Dean Martin staff which we didn't get
from the subscribe method on line 53.
And now we're going to interact
with the department repository.
We're going to get to look up
in the repository find all the departments
and then the count for it
and like I said, it does not actually execute that.
It's going to be done in another call.
And now we're going to do a save all.
We're going to create three department.
Said, uh, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences
with these Deans that we've already persisted.
Now we're going to show that,
because we only got the Flux, they did not save
to the database yet.
This is before the subscription of the departments.
Now on the Flux we call blockLast which is,
it's not going to return until the last department is saved.
And now, we're going to show them the department number
after the subscription is happened.
This is example forced asynchronous features
to display synchronously and honestly the power
of the reactive stack is lost.
WebFlux in the web tier automatically subscribes to the Mono
and Flux publishers.
It's there where reactive programming comes alive.